# Congressional Redistricting

Many years ago, I watched a video by AlphaPhoenix on his computer simulation to create compact congressional districts in the state of Tennessee. The original video can be found at [Algorithmic Redistricting: Elections made-to-order](https://youtu.be/Lq-Y7crQo44?si=dupvn5EWa2crNovq).

## Required Files
- colors.py
- counties.json
- district_census.py
- graphic_primitives.py
- jsonload.py
- precinct.py
- state.py
- test_map.py (only if you want to use the cached version of the precinct map)
- window.py

## Required Libraries
- enum
- json
- math
- queue
- random
- re
- sys
- tkinter

## To Run
```bash
python window.py {any string}
```
- If {any string} is non-empty, the program will load the cached map instead of generating it at runtime.

- If {any string} is empty, the program will determine all the neighbors for each precinct in counties.json.

You can change this to any state by updating counties.json with the configuration of the counties and precincts for your desired state.

## JSON Structure (Go Descriptor)
```go
type AutoGenerated struct {
    Name     string `json:"Name"`
    Counties []struct {
        County    string `json:"county"`
        Precincts []struct {
            ID       int `json:"id"`
            Boundary []struct {
                X int `json:"x"`
                Y int `json:"y"`
            } `json:"boundary"`
        } `json:"precincts"`
        Rep int `json:"rep"`
        Dem int `json:"dem"`
        Oth int `json:"oth"`
    } `json:"counties"`
    Districts int `json:"districts"`
}
```

## Program Details
The program handles a 600x600 pixel representation of the state. Currently, it takes the total number of voters and distributes them equally between the precincts. For example, if there are 10 precincts and 100 voters, the internal representation will have 10 voters per precinct.

## Contributing

### Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/robinsoj/redistrict
cd redistrict
```

### Running the program
```bash
python window.py
```

### Submit a pull request

If you'd like to contribute, please fork the repository and open a pull request to the `main` branch.
